Welcome to the weekly podcast for City Chapel at Slaughter Creek.
The world's okayest church, right here in Austin.
Get to know us better at CityChapelChurch.com
We're so glad that you joined us today and hope you enjoy the message.
He's here.
in this room
in your heart.
breath
Heartbeat.
Nearer than you are to you, closer than second chance or next opportunity, closer than tonight or yesterday.
He's real.
More real than reality.
He is our reality more real than joy.
No, I'm not.
With sorrow.
Or the love of being and love his present.
Like space.
To win time.
Silence. Night he is waiting.
Like creation. Like words on the tip of tongue. Like songs that have yet to be sung. He is beauty and oranges.
Blues, every hue, every shade, sunset and sunrise whisper his name he is home.
be touched, straight.
They're explained like...
Sweet seconds of prayer like grandmother on knees, wood floor, bear, he is old news.
Stretched limbs stretched across trees, strikes to heal disease. He is son, distinctly three, distinctly one.
The only one, the only wise, the only resurrector of lives, he is king.
The spouse in his moment and voice, power of choice in word and love.
That believe he is
Everything we can do.
In the fullness of this Christmas season, what you need to hear.
The word from God.
God. One word from God can change everything.
your life.
Art from God can turn.
Turn.
He throws horrible circumstances around for the good of those who love him and are called according to his purpose.
That's what Christmas is about. It's about the Word of God.
When, when, when John's.
In his gospel, wrote about the Christmas story.
Um.
The way he described it, he didn't talk about shepherds, and he didn't talk about kings, and he didn't talk about a manger seed
John, in his gospel, said,
He went all the way back to genesis
He said, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and the Word...
became flesh.
dwelt among us.
whisper to God.
Was heard in a cave.
Not in a cathedral.
But in the cave, sometimes God shows up where you least.
Expect Him. Sometimes His Word comes to you...
He's a cafeteria, not a cage.
Not a cathedral. No stained glass windows here. We don't even really have...
Windows
But God's word can speak.
Right here.
I don't have time to preach a full sermon because honestly this whole service is
Been a sermon.
But I do want to share with you
It's just one scripture. It's found in Luke chapter 1, verse 13
Thank you guys. If you guys just stay up here.
Play softly if you like. But Luke chapter 1...
The angel appears to Mary and tells her what's going to happen. She's going to have the Messiah.
and ah.
Uh, she says, well, how can this be?
Since I do not
No, a man, since I'm not married.
Mary wasn't married.
That's confusing kids, but she just wasn't married, so she couldn't have a baby. And so she said, how can this be? How can this be?
Can this be? And just like many of us, as soon as God's word came to her, she started praying.
Talking about her restrictions, her limitations.
And the angel said, okay, look,
Here's the deal. It's not.
I'm going to be just you.
Word that God is depositing in you, Mary, is not, you're not responsible for producing anything.
I don't know, maybe you need to hear that today. You're not responsible for producing money.
promise of God in your life.
God never promises anything without without bringing his presence along with his promise he said i will overshadow you the spirit of the most high will
God will overshadow you. God will put something in you. God will do something in you.
So that at some point what is done in you will
I have to come out of you.
See, God's going to make Mary pregnant.
And he goes on to explain that. I just feel like maybe that's the word for somebody for this year, that you've been trying in your own strength and in the arm of the flesh to produce what God has done.
Well, God had promised and that's not working. Let me encourage you. Maybe 2018 can be the year where God, you allow God to do something in you so that at 9 months,
Nine months later, what he started in you just can't stay in you anymore. And it starts coming through you. It starts coming out of you.
You're trying to produce a ministry. You're trying to produce effectiveness.
You can't do that. You need God.
And that's what the angel said. Well, actually, God's going to do it, Mary. God's going to work in cooperation with you to produce what he's promised.
And in Mary's response that I want, I want, I want to look at Mary's response. Mary's response in Luke chapter one, she says, her response to the angel was, let it be.
Unto me.
According to your word.
Just let it be.
Let it be unto me.
Let it.
Let it happen
Actually, it's really in the original language. It says, "Let it be in me."
According to your word. Let it happen.
Inside of me.
Let it be. It's interesting because that's the same word that's used in Genesis chapter 1.
Over and over and over again, the first book of the Bible is called Genesis, and right there in the first book of the Bible, the first chapter,
God stands into the middle of nothing.
With with nothing but a word
And he speaks that word and the first word that comes out of his mouth is let there be.
If it's the exact same word in the original language, let it be, let there be. It's the same word.
If you're looking at the Greek New Testament, it's Ginomai.
It means let it happen or let it appear or let it be born, let it be created, let it start.
You know my, and constantly throughout Genesis chapter 1, God is saying, get on my this and get on my that and let it be and let there be light and let
and let the light be divided and let this light rule the day and let this light rule the night. If you're reading in the original language in the Septuagint from the original language, you're going to see this.
See the Greek ginomai and ginomai and ginomai. He's constantly creating things by saying, "Let it be." Well, that's what Mary said. Mary said, "Ginomai, let it be."
Unto me according to
Your word.
She's using the exact same word, which, by the way,
Ginomai is very similar to Ginesis.
which Guinness says if you read it in the English, sounds a lot like Genesis, and that's why the book of Genesis is called Genesis, because of all the Guinnesses,
in the first chapter and literally there's so much let let there be it's really genesis is the story of the beginning the creation of the first of the world.
And so Genesis or Genomine means let out of nothing, or as the Latin, as the Catholics would say, ex nohelio, out of nothing.
Let everything come out. Let everything be created. Ex nihilo out of absolutely nothing. Just let it be. God stepped into nothing with nothing but a word.
by the word and created everything.
And Mary, when she hears
Here's the promise from the angels. She says, I'm going to go.
She says, let it be.
Let let even though i am deficient even though i don't have what it takes to produce what you've promised
Let it appear. Let it be born. Let it be birthed. Let it be created.
And I just feel like that's what God wants to say to so many of us in this Christmas season.
As soon as we start hearing about the promise of Jesus and the promise of purity and the promise of hope and the promise of salvation and the promise of joy, many times what we do is we do it
Do is we look to our limitations and we say, how can this be? No, you need to change that, turn that around and say, let it be to me according to your word.
That God can just create things.
That you don't have it within you, but God can just create what you don't have. In fact, God would rather...
You bring your nothing.
Like i just feel like maybe 2018 is going to be a year of genesis a genesis year for somebody a genesis you need your own genesis week you need your own let there be you need to
You need your own moment where God steps into your life. And what was not there suddenly appears there when he speaks over your life. He says, let joy be.
Let faith be. Let hope be.
Be, get on my leather feet, let it appear, let it sled. Salvation spring up from the ground. There hasn't been a sufficient process, but God, in his creative power,
Just creates it inside of you. Let faithfulness be. Let generosity be. Let peace be.
Let peace be in your home. Let peace be in your life.
He says, let it be. He didn't give
Fixing it in appearance.
God can do more with your nothing than he can with your something. And that's why God resists the proud. That's why God doesn't like it, because proud people are always trying to bring God their something.
Thank you.
And he looks at that and they bring it to the table. He says, I can't do anything with that. God can do nothing with your something, but something with your nothing.
If that makes sense.
It's what you have to come.
You're almost...
It's almost ideal to be in a cafeteria. It's almost ideal to be down to nothing. You've been bringing God here for so many years. He's been waiting for you.
For you to get down to nothing.
Peace.
And when he's sleeping
He doesn't shout.
And he whispers.
The reason why he whispers is because he's close
You whisper when you're near somebody.
You get right up to their ear.
And he whispered.
The soundtrack of...
Blame the soundtrack of doubt
Is blaring
In your mind because it's not close to you because it doesn't really know you
It's yelling at you from afar.
But God gets close because he's never been far away from you.
He's never.
You tried to run away, but he's everywhere, so you couldn't.
Get away from him. He's always been there.
And he whispers.
And I just feel like that's what he's doing right here in this.
He's dropping words to people and whispering to people.
Would you bow your heads and close your eyes and pray with me for just a minute if you would like to receive the gift of Jesus Christ here on Christmas?
Why don't you raise your hand and say, that's me. I need to
Ani-gadi, create something.
It's awesome.
And he got to create some things. That's right. It doesn't matter if you're 5 or 55. You can respond to Jesus.
You can raise your hand and say, that's me. I need the whisper of heaven.
So would you just pray with me?